yo
a
israel
good morning good afternoon no matter
where you come from hope you all are
doing well they asked me they said leon
it's crunk dead
and i had to yell it back at him crunk
ain't dead
crunk ain't dead what's going on
everybody hope everyone's doing well
glad you're back excited to get into
some css tonight
welcome welcome welcome
as always
we have a question to start off the
evening folks
always in that learn with leon live
channel we have a question
and so the question tonight is
would you rather invent a new gadget
or discover new species gadget or
species in chat for me please gadget or
species in chat please
so we got
a lot of species throwing up gotcha
gadget's overwhelming this time okay i
see y'all it's a little mix a little mix
i think folks are well it makes sense
it makes sense that the gadget folks are
here right if you're putting in all this
time to learn how to build
learn some new technologies it makes
sense with the gadget i think i'm in the
species camp i want to discover a new
species
we'll call it the the 100 devs toad
there you go the 100 devs toad or
something like that there we go gadget
species hey folks get in here hope
you're doing well
not tea tonight folks got some uh
got some delicious delicious cold brew
this evening
species don't pay the bills
[Laughter]
that's funny
welcome everybody get in here get in
here
as always like to start off with some
questions uh so i'm gonna go ahead and
bring that slide up
you got questions
i got answers
domino's head's cold brewed now they
they i don't i don't know
i haven't been there in a while
his glitch down we might have broken
glitch we got to be we got to be weary
of the
the immense power that this community
has
that we're
we just ddosed them oh no
the same thing happened
uh the same thing happened
with um
with our
slides
so the we we like center with the slides
and then they like glitched they went
down for a little while but they're
working now but i think we want a glitch
glitch so don't worry about glitch for
right now
we're gonna talk about how to submit the
homework don't worry about submitting it
for right now let's let's give them
let's give them a chance to recover
five six seven thousand of us all just
just ran up on them and start trying to
create accounts so let's give them a
chance to breathe don't worry about you
can submit the homework later tonight uh
let's give them a little a little bit of
a little bit of time for glitch the
glitch you know what i'm saying you know
what i'm saying
all right
what other questions we got while we're
here folks
i always like the terrible questions
just to give folks a few seconds to get
in here sometimes you're you're running
from work i get it
i see a lot of folks starting out the
bingo okay excavation point bingo
if you didn't know how to use glitch
don't worry about it
hey thanks for the raid hope you're
doing well thanks for stopping by
hope your stream went well
good to see you
how things been
welcome everybody
we're uh we we're we just got started
too we're we're letting folks get in
here
we're answering questions hope your
stream went well we definitely gotta get
a raid coming back to you
uh so hopefully next time we see you
live that's where we're going
come on folks get in here for folks that
are new
we do a 30 week software engineering
bootcamp we're only four classes in so
if you've ever wanted to learn html css
javascript node react and get a job as a
software engineer it's the right place
to be
can we keep going with class even if
we're behind hell yeah
that's why we got the ketchup crew
we gotta get in that ketchup crew on
discord
github instead nah we we wait to get the
github alrighty folks i think we got i
think we got i think uh i think the
gang's all here
let's uh let's get into it let's talk
about what we're going to
cover this evening there's no slido for
regular class just use chat i try to
keep my best
come on through
somebody said your favorite success
story from last cohort
you know what it's just that
i think a lot of folks found what they
were looking for that i think that's
that's that i think picking one person
is very hard we're gonna have a lot of
alumni are gonna start talking to you
all we're gonna start bringing alumni
pretty much every friday uh and so i
think a lot of folks just found a good
fit and that that's what makes me happy
i think a lot of folks were working jobs
where they were really unhappy they
would have lost those jobs during the
pandemic and what i hear from a lot of
them are just that they're like happy
like they're making good salary yes
they're working on cool stuff yes but
they're happy and so i think that that's
the coolest thing to hear
all right let's go into what we're going
to talk about tonight folks
so always start off with questions like
we normally do we're of course going to
get our spaced repetition in we're going
to talk about the client server model
again we're going to talk about
progressive enhancement again and then
we're going to jump into the
fundamentals of css so you've been doing
a lot of reading you've been diving deep
into that shea how but tonight we're
going to start from the beginning we're
going to make sure that all the core
stuff makes sense that you feel
comfortable with that core stuff and
then we're going to move into a little
bit a little bit deeper of topics when
it comes to css
how to not rely on just classes and
ideas but to get used to the parent
child selectors knowing that the
different ways that you can have a
parent and a child that you can have
direct parents that you can have
siblings all these types of relationship
selectors then we'll hint that classes
and ids and then we're going to talk
about specificity it's going to be the
big topic for this evening specificity
so we can start making sure that we can
use the cascade so our benefit the style
all of our content and then you'll have
a lab and then we're going to have a lab
right and that lab is going to be you
building your first site with html and
css which would be pretty cool i think
we're going to
with the bruh hope you're doing well dab
good to see you
so a lot to cover tonight lots of new
stuff i think we're going to end a
little early tonight just so you can
have some time to work on that lab we're
always going to do a raid at the end
just to spread the love and positivity
around
but then uh then you're gonna have some
time to work on this
damn hey what's up
we do have end early emotes because i
always say it and then it never happens
uh so if you if you have a sub or gifted
sub or you use your channel points to
unlock the emotes uh we do have an end
early emote because i always say it but
it never happens but i'm gonna try i'm
gonna try my best
if you need the slides as always
exclamation point slides
true thank you for the hydration
all right let's get into it folks
four hours later in the i can't even do
i can't do the spongebob voice but yeah
alrighty let's get in it folks let's
lock in
uh if you haven't checked in yet you can
always do the exclamation point check in
uh here on
twitch that'll give you the tweet to
like and retweet
please if you are here go ahead and give
that tweet a like and a retweet please
that way more folks can find our lovely
community and not pay 20 grand for a
boot camp we always check in every class
if you're new around here just uh more
folks can find us and uh all i'll say
is like
a lot of times we start trending 100
devs trends every time
in the technology because there's so
many of y'all uh checking in and sharing
and i love every night before i before i
head off to bed i i scroll through the
hundred devs hashtag i like a bunch of
stuff uh i love seeing you all on
twitter y'all while now it's cool to see
all right
submitting homework uh don't worry about
submitting right now i think we brought
down glitch or something happened with
glitch we don't have to we don't we
don't have to claim that we can just
keep that to ourselves we don't have to
claim that we're gonna keep that to
ourselves uh but the idea here is i
didn't want you to take your html
and plop it in a glitch and then they
give you a link that you can share
right i don't need you to like change
the paths to your images or like get
stuff to be perfect
i just want your html i don't care if
your images break or whatever just go
ahead and plop your html into a glitch
and then give me that link right
that's all i need
is everybody saying too late my bad
yeah and that's that's going to be the
same for like all your homework i know
that when i asked you to submit stuff
early on like early in program when we
use the google form it's hard to like
keep all your files and things together
don't worry about that i just want to
see the raw code that's all i care about
when we get a little bit further in and
we start using git and github then i'm
just going to ask for your github repo
and then you're going to have everything
in there so just give me the html don't
worry about anything else don't worry
about your images don't worry about uh
hot linking or whatever
just go ahead and submit it can you
resubmit sure you can if you need to
but don't worry whatever you submit it
is absolutely fine don't don't stress it
too much right now and like i said i
think we i think glitch is down right
now we brought it down uh so don't worry
about it for right now
take some time like after class to
submit it and you're all good
cool
a lot of folks say does homework get
reviewed no
all the homework is binary it is did you
do it or did you not do it and then we
do every single thing that gets assigned
for homework we redo in class right so
you get that space repetition and you'll
see the exact example and then you can
compare yours to the others there are
some stuff that gets like auto-graded
but for the most part i try to give you
stuff that's either you did it or you
didn't do it and you got to get
comfortable with that a lot of times
when you're turning in
work or tickets you might have some
light code review but it's on you to get
it 99 of the way there it's up to you to
say that looks exactly like the photo
the designer gave me i don't need to
tell you you did it right right because
we don't care about the code quality
right we don't care about code quality
it could be the vomitiest code that
we've ever seen we're here did we get it
right or wrong
right do we get it right or do we get it
wrong that's it
okay
cool
advice for people that are behind in
class ketchup catch-up crew on uh on
discord we got the ketchup crew uh the
beautiful thing about discord i saw over
between this and last class is there so
many people on discord just in the voice
channels
sharing their their their screen and
watching the videos together and talking
through things that came up so if you're
a little behind jump in one of those
voice channels work with some others to
get caught up
you know
are people saying how do we plop our
html into glitch i actually showed you
how to use glitch i didn't know how to
use glitch fully but we did it together
so you can re-watch that video to see
how i did it uh or you know what get in
there give it the whole 100 try you can
upload your files you got to get in
there you got to play around with it you
got it you got you got to start
exploring but right now glitch is down
don't worry about it for right now i
think we brought him down 5 000 people
signing up within a 30 second span is
pretty rough
so so don't worry about right now submit
it after class
cool
thank you for the the hydration cheers
to you
and for right now if you are catching up
you're a little behind don't worry about
submitting homework get it in
we're not in our official houses yet so
we can be a little bit more flexible
with homework and so get it in if you're
watching this afterwards just get it in
don't you don't have to let me know on
discord just get it in you're good
homework will become more and more of a
more strict thing as we kind of progress
okay
also if you're watching us on youtube go
ahead and give us that like go ahead and
click the subscription button hit the
notification bell it feels so weird to
say that but i don't want to have to
edit this afterwards
also can we talk for a second
got copyright struck
i got copyright struck because i played
the um
curb your enthusiasm song like you know
like the
i don't really wanna can i hum it can i
can i can i whistle it i don't know
right and so i like there's there's like
a 15 second period of the first video
where
where it's just me doing this
because i muted it so that they could
get rid of the copyright strike because
here's the thing
the channel is not monetized right so
there are no ads you got but i did get
got
thank you edward i did get got so it's
not monetized so there's no ads but if
there is a 10 15 second clip of some
sound it's not even like a like i guess
it's like some older song it's not even
like a real freaking song right 1050s
and clips they copyright strike it
right they copyright check it come on
larry exactly and then the whole video
gets monetized and it's a three freaking
hour video i don't want you have to sit
through ads across a three frickin hour
video uh so i there's like a 15 second
of me just like
doing this i wasn't saying anything
don't worry
but we had to mute it so that the ads
don't play i just thought that was that
was funny
yeah i got got it did
got got
all right
just some quick reminders before you
jump into learning this evening
please use search we talked about this
last class
a lot of times we get some kind of very
common questions i get it you're worried
don't stress just don't stress so much
it's okay
we're learning we're easing into the
process nothing is hard requirements yet
we're still getting our gears turned in
here folks so a lot of the common
questions that get asked you can
probably find them just by using the
search
a lot of times things get answered a lot
of times things get asked multiple times
go ahead make sure you're using search
all right
another thing is now all of our help
channels and the ask leon channels are
thread based you don't have to do
anything we have a lovely bot in those
channels
that whenever you ask a question it
automatically turns that question into a
thread
so there's nothing you have to do
you just have to go ahead and type your
question like normal
and that will be turned into a thread
and then that way folks that want to
help can jump into those threads and
help directly in the thread and so all
the help channels now have that
and the ask leon channel has that
so please
don't click reply anymore
jump into the thread and answer in the
thread if you click reply we're just
deleting those
that way it's just threads in those
channels right
what does thread mean third means that
all the messages are in one place and so
if you go into any of the help channels
right you can go if you go into any of
the help channels
uh you will see that there are threads
now instead of like a bazillion messages
just streaming by
i know that a lot of folks kind of get
stressed out by discord when there's so
much and so in the help channels we want
it to have the threads so that way it's
way easier to search for questions and
see the responses right and then also
just to make it easier for folks that
are helping to jump in and keep it all
together so
please don't just click reply in help
channels
those will be deleted and if you want to
help and answer questions just jump in
the thread
and then with that being said you have
the power to help right a lot of folks
are going to be at different places at
different times throughout this cohort
if you see a question that you feel like
you can answer
jump on in answer that question you got
the power you can just jump in and
answer it a lot of folks right now are
going to start to have questions about
css if shayhao really clicked for you
right shayhao really clicked for you and
it made a lot of sense you understand
the things that happened tonight during
class this weekend right
this weekend when you are working and
you see people in the discord asking the
questions that you already know go ahead
jump in there and answer answer them
somebody just said teaching also helps
you master subject yes
the most the the best thing you can do
to like actively recall and get your
space repetition is to teach others it
really does just like lock things in
that you'll never forget a lot of the
stuff that we're doing tonight in class
it's just
it comes off my tongue like butter
because i've done it a thousand times
right and so
teaching others helping others
working with others is a great way to
reinforce those concepts
it's one thing to like understand
something it's a whole other thing to
teach it to another or share it with
another person and so get in those get
in those channels get in those voice
channels and help out
i love butter
j house brutal it can be we're going to
talk about that tonight we're going to
talk about why reading can be brutal at
first
all right
another thing that's come up that i want
to make sure that we're very clear on is
that you got to get better at typing
you just do
right
you got to get better at typing can they
use github links or code pens you can
use a code pen if you would like yeah
thank you
you can use a coping if you want but um
yeah i prefer
glitch just because we brought it down
so we can open up a little bit got to
get better at typing so folks say like
what is a good typing speed
i think like an admirable goal for
typing is like 60 words per minute
that that's where you where you want to
be right if you can type 60 words per
minute you're in a good spot okay
and the reason why i say 60 words per
minute
is
you there's a couple there's a couple
big things one
there was this article i tried really
hard to find i could not find it again
but there was this article and like a
thread on hacker news about like who do
people go to
like who do people go to when they need
help
right
and what they found out is that people
don't go to the best developers they go
to the people that can like type faster
so if you can type mod like very fast
you're more likely to get folks coming
to you because they know you can get to
your answer quicker and then the other
thing that came up is that one of the
biggest kind of skills you can have
joining a company is to be decent at
typing if you join a company and you're
kind of doing the finger poking people
are going to be a little suspicious
a little suspicious right and so to get
past that sniff test and interviews to
get past that sniff test
when you are kind of
new on the job you want to make sure
that your typing is up to speed and the
beautiful thing is we got 30 weeks for
you to get better
at it
now the last thing and i think that's
something that's really important
and why this being good at typing thing
is really important is because early on
a lot of folks that don't type well
are thinking about the typing
and not all their is going on the coding
right so if all your type all your
energy is going into like making sure
you're typing well right
your brain might not be processing the
actual learning to code bits as much and
so you want to make sure that you can be
typing and not worrying about it so you
can focus all your energy on learning
and so that's why being able to type
well and not use like even if you even
if you finger type
at 60 70 80 words per minute but if
you're still looking at the keyboard and
thinking about what you're doing
that that that doesn't help and so you
want to get to the point where you're
flowing and you can get into that flow
state like i don't know how to describe
it to you but once you start coding you
hit that flow state everything changes
and so i find it really hard for my
students to hit that flow state without
having decent typing
now for me i type around 80 words per
minute
and i don't think that's necessarily
like great i don't think it's
necessarily wonderful um it's something
i could keep working on to get better at
there are other folks like the primogen
who we uh we saw yesterday that are just
like wizards speeding around uh but for
me i was at like around 80 on a normal
keyboard and then i jumped to my split
keyboard uh my kinesis and like my my
typing speed tanked i went to like 30
words per minute and it took me a while
to build back up from like like 30 up to
back to like my 80.
and um
the thing that helped me get my typing
back
after i switched to a split keyboard was
uh keeber and so keeber is really like
it's completely free and it's a
wonderful way to like improve your
typing so part of your homework is to do
a typing test
typingtest.com i like the five minute
wizard of oz one
and just to see where you're at and then
committing some time into your daily
practice for some typing if you need it
if you need it
yeah
not everyone will be there and everyone
will need it but if you do
something to start now start early the
earlier you get better at typing the
better off you'll be the more you'll be
able to hit that flow state and the
easier it will be to learn
can i i can hear this gif that's so
weird
you know like when you can see guess you
just hear them
can you listen
see if you can hear the gif you ready
listen
god
no god please no no
no
you heard it right i you just look at it
and sometimes you can hear it i don't
know why but like you just look at it
sometimes you can hear it i heard it i
don't know why it's weird
anyway
the copyright's coming for me
um
so leon why do you assign so much
reading well
let's talk about it
the reason why i signed so much reading
is because most of you all once you
leave the the wonderful bubble that is a
hundred devs
will join a company
that uses a language that you have never
learned
or uses a technology that you've never
heard of
and it will be up to you to learn that
technology in a week
sometimes my students get tickets that
are they get a ticket on monday that's
due on friday and it's something that
they've never ever heard of
right
and so what you're going to do
is have to
go find the documentation for that
technology and it's going to be old it's
going to be dusty right it's going to be
it's going to be a markdown file that
just doesn't make sense and that's all
you're going to have
that's it
some dusty
written in a different language
translated to english
different
like just horrible bit of documentation
and that's all there will be
there will be no
fancy tutorial thank you for the gift
itself there will be no tutorial
there will be no video
there will be no me helping you through
that through that bit of content there
will be a document written in
hieroglyphics exactly
and so
a lot of my students
that i noticed a couple years ago
that only consumed videos or tutorials
that kind of held their hand
they always did
way worse on the job because there's
just going to be throat you're just
going to be thrown into situations where
you gotta
you gotta read
and so
i start early on by getting you used to
reading a lot
and so
yes
i could be assigning videos
i could be assigning more tutorials and
we will there will be lots of videos i
assign there'll be lots of tutorials
that i assign i love traversing media
give give that man a medal right like
there will be lots of videos that i will
assign
but
we gotta get better at reading
and the only way i've seen my students
get better at it is by assigning more of
it so that's why we have a lot of
reading and why i want you to engage
fully with that reading don't cheat
don't cheat yourself don't treat
yourself with that cognitive effort
right
do the reading when you things don't
make sense you can go and use other
sources but you i need you to
to grapple and push yourself and get
better at that reading so that when
you're on the job and that's all there
is you're okay at it
okay
so that's why i do it and that's why i
know so for a lot of folks it's it's
kind of overwhelming at first but trust
me you put in the cognitive effort now
you'll be way better off in a couple
months when you're when you're on the
job
thank you for all the hydration she
tells you
all right keep pushing here
we've kind of hinted at this before
oh and that's another thing two people
asked in chat thank you for asking that
uh
when you are reading technical readings
it means you're coding along
you should never like read through shay
hal without like if you're reading
shayhao like this
you're messing up
right
you need to be
taking the code examples playing with
them your text editor right you need to
be engaging with the actual code right
so when you're reading technical
material when you're trying to learn how
to code through written medium you're
not just reading you're you're engaging
with it you're stopping reading you're
playing with the code you're coming back
to the reading
right we don't get got
we go exactly we go get we go get by
reading more
right and so
reading is active reading you're you're
not only actively recalling you're not
only taking your questions you're not
only adding to anki you're playing with
the code reading reading technical stuff
should take way longer than reading
something like a book right you just
need to stop more often you play more
often
you gotta be getting the hands-on
keyboard time even with reading and heck
a lot of times when i'm reading stuff
i'll be building like a small project
along with the reading so like if
they're teaching me some topic i'm
trying to build something based off of
what they're telling me right like you
want to engage with it so for now
make sure you're engaging make sure
you're reading make sure you're playing
all right
we hinted at this piece a little while
ago
and it's something that i i want to
bring up again
there we go something going to bring up
again
and it's this idea of
going deep
not wide
okay i need you to go deep
and the idea here
is that
in the beginning there are so many
things
that can consume your intention
i'm trying to get my chair height right
cool there are so many things that can
consume your attention
and
early on
you are way better off
going deep
and not wide
do not spend three hours trying to like
finesse your vs code and like set it up
with all the latest bling and blam
don't spend three hours trying to figure
out get in github when it's not due yet
right
make sure
that you're going
deep with the material in front of you
and not spreading yourself
too thin
right
the folks that start looking at all the
shiny objects all the bells and whistles
and they run off on tangents that's a
great hallmark of a good developer but
not now
go deep with the material that you have
really invest yourself in digesting and
understanding and
try and stay on the
the right path because if you go too
wide you burn out that's all it is
you just burn out if you try to do too
much exactly you're going to feel
overwhelmed and you're going to burn out
and so
go
deep on the topics that we give you
really immerse yourself in the reading
try not to spread too wide and go deep
and for the love of all that is holy
please go ahead
and flatten your forgetting curves
make sure if you're putting in all this
work you're going deep on these topics
right you're actively reading and you
invested all this cognitive effort into
learning that you don't forget it thank
you as your friend
cool
all right folks let's jump into it let's
get into the mix
what is the internet
what is the internet chat what is the
internet
nice
thank you for the hydrations
waste world and shell razor
here's to you
yeah it's a wire it's how we connect
different devices we have our
client-side devices like our laptops our
tablets our mobile phones that can send
requests to servers which are computers
on that wire those servers can hear
those requests
generate responses and respond
to our client
um
a person that writes the code that
enables a server to listen to requests
and generate response is what we call
them
yeah we call them a back end developer
nice and somebody that uh writes the
code
that
runs on the client side device is what
we call them
cool
uh what do we call someone that writes
both front end and back end code
cool full stack developers that's what
we're all here to be right so if you're
new here welcome we're trying to be full
stack web developers we are software
engineers that specialize in full stack
web development thank you
all right let's keep pushing
golden rule
separation of concerns our html should
just be our html our css should just be
our style all right sorry our html
should be our content our css should
just be our style our javascript should
just be our behavior and interaction
why
why is the separation of concerns such
an important idea and we're going to see
it tonight folks tonight we're going to
see like why this rule is important and
how we can be led astray if we don't
actually follow this rule there you go
chat it's organization exactly it's all
about organization right if we are
working on code and we want to come back
to that code sometime later right when
it come back to that code in a in in a
month or so and we want to we want to
fix something style wise we know to go
directly to the css if we're working
with a team and somebody on our team
wants to go and add more content to our
home page they know to go to the html so
by following separation concerns we
bring organization to our code and it's
a good coding pattern to follow early on
so that you can work well with yourself
and with teams
all right last class we talked about
progressive enhancement progressive
enhancements this idea that the core of
your site the thing that matters the
most is your content or your html
right and then in that content we wrap
it with a very small amount of
presentation which is our css and then
we just put a very thin lit candy
coating which is our client-side
scripting or our javascript why is this
idea of progressive enhancement
important like why does it matter why
should we make sure that content is king
can be for accessibility can help with
accessibility
um
and it and and it has to do with yeah
exactly folks
might not have high speed internet
access and when you don't have
high-speed internet access
things might take too long to load we
saw that we saw that idea with c cnn
their main site was thousands of
requests and their light site was just a
handful right and so if in the u.s we
had 22 million americans or 35 percent
of our royal russians didn't have
broadband access if you expand that to
around the entire world there are just
so many potential customers consumers
that don't have high-speed or reliable
high-speed internet access and if you're
building your sites with heavy
client-side scripting heavy things that
slow down your site you're doing them a
disservice
now
there was uh once that we didn't talk
well i did talk about i think maybe i
i'm i'm not sure if we covered it but
there's a site called
motherfuckingwebsite.com
and i love it because this is a
[__] website look at it
uh it's perfect right what else do you
want
uh it's lightweight it's responsive
meaning that it works across all the
devices and it works and it's just html
right so just html you can build great
sites
that work well
right that would work for anyone
depending on the no matter if they have
a
high speed broadband or just a regular
internet connection it's going to work
and so
you can build wonderful websites that
have lots of utility that that work well
for everyone if you focus on your html
and that's why we start with html that's
why i asked you to do so many sites with
just html before we even get to our css
because the html the content is what
matters
now we're going to jump into css
all right
jump into css now
the
the nature of jumping into css is that
we really
shouldn't be this really shouldn't be
your first pass
right
your first pass into css should have
been when you were going through shayhao
right what we're going to do is we're
going to distill
the important things out go over them
together
but if you're showing up to class and
you haven't done the reading
you're in for a little bit of a shock
because we're gonna be using lots of big
fancy terminology lots of new vocabulary
and so if you're not keeping up with the
reading
class is gonna be a little bit of a
shock right and so i'm hoping that you
got through the reading that you gave it
the good old 100 devs try
that when we get into shock me good leon
when you get into
uh the goods tonight it's it's a little
bit of a little bit of recall a little
bit of repetition right
but you don't have to stress
when i give your reading yes i want you
to go through i want you to engage with
it i want you to to understand it but
all the important stuff the stuff that
you really absolutely have to know the
stuff you have to really absolutely lock
down we're always going to review
together in class
cool
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
alrighty
let's get into
it well i gotta ban somebody real quick
there we go all right
where does our css
go
does our css
go inline
go in the head
or does our css go into
a separate file
oh we got a lot of people yeah i think
we can get it i think we got them all
right here
now if you set it in a separate file
that's what i'm looking for
now why
would our css have to go into a separate
file why why do we do that why do we put
our css in a separate file
separation of concerns exactly the
golden rule separation of concerns calls
us to keep our html our css and our
javascript separate so to keep our code
separate we put them in separate files
and then we link them all together so
tonight we'll see how to link your your
html to your css that's the idea we're
gonna put our css into a separate file
and then link our html to our css we'll
do the same thing with our javascript
when we get there as well we'll have our
javascript in a separate file and we
will link that javascript okay
now there are some exceptions to this
rule
does anyone know an exception to when we
could put our css in line with our html
and what that means is like you'll have
like an html tag
and one of the attribute value pairs
will be style and your css will go
actually in the html tag itself
but there is a time when you can use
inline style
and only one time
ah people see it emails yes emails like
the emails you get in your inbox they're
all written with html
and the unfortunate thing
is that the
the emails are don't have access to
external style sheets and so they need
inline css like there's like an email
you can't link to an external style
sheet there's some stuff that they're
working on right now to make that a
thing but the idea is that if you want
to write emails you're going to put your
css in line uh in your email and that
just goes all the way back to when
emails kind of first were taking in
style right
cool
i got a scam fake leon email today and
it's gonna start happening people are
gonna start sending you wild stuff we're
a big community now we talked about it
on on tuesday be careful in these
streets folks
be careful in these streets
i'm really only ever going to send you
emails on class days and you're really
only ever going to get three emails from
me you're only ever really going to get
a class email on tuesday a class email
on thursday and then a like like a
office hours email on sunday it is very
very rare that i'll send you any other
type of email and so if you get some
sort of weird email that's not one of
those things and if it is one of those
things
be careful um but yeah i'm not really
gonna send you any other stuff
one of the emails asked for two thousand
dollars for mentoring
i i don't have a cryptocurrency there's
there's no leon coin please don't get
got
camera's going to scam exactly
all right
so in line the only time you can use
inline css
right
anytime you want to use inline css uh it
is for an html email right they have an
email that's it that that's the only
time you can use css inline
now
there is a chance
that you could use some css in the head
at the the beginning of your document
right like at the top of your document
we have we have the head remember that
you can see my sexy body you can
actually see it tonight but you can't
see what's inside my head well in that
sorry in the head you can put
some some some style blocks in there if
you want
now is there anybody know why you might
put some style in the head
it's like oh there's only like one time
that you should really do that
the only time you should do that
is when you work at amazon
so amazon has publicly stated for every
one second their page load speed
increases they lose a million dollars a
day
one second increase a million dollars a
day all right and so could you imagine
being the front-end engineer that like
loads like something too heavy and page
speed goes up and like they lose out on
millions of dollars right so
what folks at amazon came up with and
i'm not sure if they're the originators
but they definitely used it and
popularized it it's something called
critical path css
it's the css that you absolutely need to
load above the fold above the fold means
like before you start scrolling
everything you see when the page renders
that's above the fold if you have to
scroll that's below the fold so what
amazon does is they put
a little bit
of css in the head of their document
that just loads that that like
above the fold
then everything else goes in a normal
separate css file and that gives them
just a slight a slight increase in
performance that can actually save them
money
now you should never use inline css
unless
you are
writing emails and you probably
shouldn't use critical pass css unless
you're amazon and like microseconds
really matter to you right or our normal
projects the things we work on most of
the companies you'll join you're better
off with the benefits of separation of
concerns than you are with the very
small increases in performance okay
now
we'll be putting our css into a separate
file going forward but i'm going to show
you tonight why things like inline css
can actually really disrupt what's going
on
now
if our css is in a separate
file we need some way of connecting our
files together and so what we can do is
we can put a link tag in the head of our
document so in our html file we can put
a link tag in the head and you'll see
that tonight when we start writing out
some code but the idea here
is that when you have this link
you can tell
the browser where to go
to find your css files
and what you're actually doing here if
you look at this this href here is
you're telling the browser hey
go look inside the css folder
and when you're inside the css folder
you will see a file called style.css
we're going to spend some time talking
more about these pathings but what
really is happening here is that your
computer even though you see folders
right and you can open and close folders
your computer can actually just have
that raw path and so we'll see those
paths as we kind of get deeper into it
but the idea here is we're saying hey
from this html file
i want you to go into a folder called
css and then i want you to find this
style.css
and so we're going to put these links at
the top of our html files that's how
we're going to link our html and our css
together
yeah
it really said what is the dot in the
dot dot slash uh well
we're going to see this as we get a
little bit deeper but the idea is if you
are using something like the terminal
i'll show it while we're here
let me pull this up
it's gonna be a little a little odd and
we're gonna spend way more time looking
this but just because someone asked i
want to show it
so here's my computer
and i can cd into my desktop i know it's
a little small but the idea here is i
can move to my desktop
and then this is kind of like
the underpinnings of how our computers
work
now if you back in the day bought like
an apple computer
and um you brought it home you spent
like thousands of dollars to get it to
get it home
and then as soon as you got it home you
turned it on and this is all that you
saw
that's it
it was this there was no gui or
graphical user interface it was just
this and so there are ways to move
through
your computer
like you would by clicking on files just
by using text and so cd stands for
change directory and so i can change
from my desktop into my stream folder
and then i can change from my stream
folder into my hundred devs folder
right and then if i look inside my
hundred devs folder you can see all of
our current classes class 1 class 2
class 3 class 4. and so the idea here is
that i can
using this terminal i can move around my
computer i can move into folders i can
move out of folders right and eventually
we'll get really good at using this but
that's what you're seeing here
when you look at this href what you're
saying to the computer in this case
we'll use that loosely to the browser
you're saying hey go into the css folder
and then find
the style.css
425 show what's up how y'all doing
hold on do i still have it
hold on
i think i still have it
boom
christo's in the house what's up
uh four two five show is our lovely
friends at uh
at microsoft uh
we we've worked with them a lot last
cohort uh they're amazing we're
definitely gonna get a raid to go over
them uh they are uh an absolute trip and
this is this is uh christos that we we
all love around these parts and so uh
we're gonna come through to you
i still got it up
all right
now
when you see this we're going
into a folder called css and then
finding a file called style.css just
like there would be a file
on your computer well that's all we're
saying here you have to worry about this
too much right now but that's what it's
saying and so somebody asked what about
the dot dot slash
all that means is a command
to go up a level
right all that means is go up a level so
like if we were in a css folder we could
go up a level if i was in my stream
folder i could go up to my desktop right
and so that's all it means but for right
now don't worry about it
alrighty the thing we're going to worry
about however
is
uh the way
that we write our css so when it comes
to your css we're going to see some
significant differences from other
languages that we've learned so far like
html we're going to see some new colons
and semicolons and curly braces or some
people call them figure braces right
we're going to see this different like
spelling and grammar and so we would say
all these changes make up the what of
css
yeah they all make up the syntax of css
thanks thank you for the hydration
again thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
they all make up the syntax of css so
something we have to be careful of when
we start our journey into css
is that they're going to be a lot of new
things
that are very important if you forget
semicolons and colons you're not going
to have a great time when you start
writing out your css if you forget to
close your curly braces you're not going
to have a great time when it comes to
css so as we start to work through this
stuff we gotta we gotta make sure that
we're we're paying attention we make
sure that we
don't kind of miss these things as we
start typing and i'm gonna show you some
some little tricks that i use to make
sure that i don't forget stuff or or
forget to close stuff as we start
actually typing cool
now
css
is what we write
to style the content that we wrote in
html
and so css has its own
syntax the way the spelling the grammar
the ways that we write that
that actual language right it's a markup
language so we have a special way that
we write it
and so this entire thing here and i have
plenty of slides after this that break
this down step by step but the idea here
is that whenever you're writing css you
are writing rules
so this whole thing
is a rule
okay
rules
are then broken down into
selectors
and
declaration blocks
are then broken down into declarations
and declarations are then broken down
into
properties
and values
so what the heck does all this mean oh
doyle rules
what the heck does all this mean and
don't worry we're going to go through a
couple of times
when we are writing css we are trying to
tell the browser hey
i want some content
to look a particular way
so in this rule
we have a selector
this is telling the browser hey
i want every paragraph
right i want every paragraph to look
this way
okay and so
we have our selector
and then inside of our declaration block
goes all the declarations like the
things we are telling the browser that
we want to have happen to that kind of
content
so we have said hey i want all my
paragraphs to have this particular style
and then i have on each line
declarations that are going to go to
how i want that content to be styled and
so we have how many declarations do we
have here chat
how many declarations do we have
we got two declarations nice two
declarations and those declarations are
broken up into
properties
and values so what we're saying is hey i
want all of my paragraphs to have the
color
of red
and i want all of my paragraphs to have
a font weight of bold so they're going
to be red and bolded
nice
now i have a bunch of slides that kind
of break this down right when we're
looking at the entire thing it's called
a rule
in this case the p is called a selector
and it's followed by a set of
declarations in a declaration block so
one more time just uh for the folks in
the back
whole thing
rule
rule is broken down into a selector like
the thing that we're targeting right in
this case i'm targeting all of my
paragraphs
and i want those paragraphs to have all
these declarations and these
declarations are sitting in my
declaration
block
my declaration block has two
declarations
and those declarations each have a
property and a value property
value
nice
all right
and like i said there's there's a lot of
slides here that just break this down
step by step and so one of the things i
want you to do tonight uh after we end
class is to come back through these
slides spend some time making sure right
making sure that you
understand each piece of these because
vocabulary is important
right vocabulary is super important
when you get into these interviews
right when you get into these interviews
to pass that
sniff test and to shake that new
developer stench
you got to have the right vocabulary
and i love whenever i'm interviewing a
new software engineer i love to ask
simple questions
and one of the simple questions i'll ask
is i'll ask
what is everything called here
right
you'll be surprised how many engineers
uh forget what everything is called
and so for me it just it just shows a
level of detail and it shows a level of
interest and a level of kind of knowing
that they went through the muck to learn
it right and so for me i i like to ask
that question and and when you're in an
interview that vocabulary matters if
you're if you're using the wrong words
it's going to be a little little suspect
okay
um
so make sure you commit yourself to
using the vocabulary and then use it i
talk to myself all the time why don't i
talk to myself i talk to bob
but whenever i'm coding especially
something new
i'll talk out every bit of code that i'm
writing all right well i'm writing if
i'm writing css i'm writing a rule right
now
and this rule is going to target all my
paragraphs my paragraph is a selector
i'm going to have my curly braces the
curly braces open and close and anything
that's inside those curly braces will be
a
a a declaration block and then all right
i'm writing out my declarations i
literally say this out loud so that the
vocabulary becomes one with me right and
so you want to make sure that you are
getting that vocabulary because it is
important
what you have to realize about
interviews is that interviews are really
two parts
an interview is one part solving the
challenge in front of you and one part
communication and collaboration the
better you are communicating and
collaborating in an interview the better
off the interview is going to go for you
and a lot of feeling comfortable and
confident in interviews that you can
collaborate well
is knowing the terminology so you don't
get tripped up while you're in an
interview
alrighty folks
let's go ahead and take our top of the
hour break if you are new here
right if you are new here uh at the top
of every hour we like to take a break we
like to get up move around if we're able
go hydrate
look at something that's not your screen
let your eyes relax somewhere else and
so let's go ahead and bring that timer
on
up gonna take our five minutes we're
gonna play some tunes
but please we we we got a lot of uh
really important stuff to get into
tonight
a lot of stuff that we need to remember
for the long haul we need to get some of
that diffusive time in so go ahead take
your break when we come back we'll
review all right folks
see you in five
i'll give you what you came for
you
foreign
hmm
you're
too bad we can't combine our channel
points for only fans
teach me something bob bob has lots of
things to teach
juan my split keyboard is just the
kinesis advantage
nothing
wild
yeah
an embarrassing amount of stuff just
fell out of it when i did that
what is actually happening when we break
a website that's really interesting uh
so it's just that the server is being
overloaded like a lot of times too many
people too many people are making
requests and the server can only handle
so many of those requests before it goes
down now there are a lot of stuff that
you can do to like make sure that
doesn't happen um but sometimes you just
hit the right the right thing with the
right request like creating too many
accounts and it all goes down
now something that we actually did with
um
the 425 show that was here a little bit
earlier is that we did some identity
management and we used microsoft for our
identity management so if glitch was
using that maybe they wouldn't have went
down i don't know there you go
all right folks come on back come on
back
i also know if they went down or if we
were just
they just got blow you got blocked
does the server literally stop executing
commands it can depends what the like
the fall over is but yeah it can just
get behind it can stop
a couple different things could happen
and we'll get once we get to node and
we're building our own servers oh well
that's so much fun
dealing with all that
all right folks come on back
come on back folks
oh when writing when we when refactoring
code to declaration supersede one
another
nah some people like to go like
alphabetical
but i think that's just too much
whatever you do just be consistent in
what you do
all right let me chill the music here
we're gonna jump right back in
do i dabble in game dev
no i always kind of want to
like after like uh lana lux the person
that we uh raided and they raided us
back the other day uh just like watching
them like build something like like i i
love programming because i can create
like i can bring something into
existence
and i really like
game development in a way because like
not only is it just coding but it's all
this other stuff storytelling 3d
modeling all this other stuff that you
could like learn that i don't know and
that's what gets me excited like the
idea of like learning all these
accessory skills to become better uh is
something that gets me excited
like game development itself is not like
something like oh that's a passion but
learning all those other cool things i
think would be really interesting
cool
i really do want to make like um like i
don't know if i can say it i do want to
mod
some stuff
leave it at that
all right folks come on back let's get
into it
alrighty
so like i said there's some there's some
some more breakdown in the slides here
we don't have to go through this
but let's play our our favorite game
around here uh what is this all right
chat
uh what is
this
what did i just circle
ah
there we go
i just circled a selector nice that is a
selector
how about
this what's that
remember we have slow mode on it i think
it's a 30 second slow mode so may not be
able to answer all of these
yeah it's a declaration block it's not a
declaration it's a declaration block
notice i wrapped around those curly
braces it's a declaration block
all right
what's this
what's that
that is a rule nice
there's a rule
cool
about
this
a value nice it is a value
about
this
nice it's a declaration
cool
if you're here and you're kind of just
watching and you have the means to type
you should be typing these answers out
get in here give us give us give us your
thoughts like the more like when you
actually type this out it makes your
brain activate you got to do a little
bit more cognitive effort you gotta you
got to do something a little bit more
and you're going to remember it a little
bit easier so don't just zone out and
watch get in chat
i know it's just a wall of them but like
you're doing it it's for you not for me
right
it's going to help you remember and
retain stuff more
all right have one more one more
about
this what's that
that is a property nice so we got the
whole thing being a rule
rules broken down into selector
declaration block declaration blocks
broken down to declarations and our
declarations are broken down into
properties and values properties and
values nice
all right
now
there's something interesting about css
and the thing that's interesting about
css
is that
it is read from top to bottom
right and what comes above
can be overwritten by what comes
below
right
so the the rules that you write above
can be overwritten by the rules that
come below and we call this the cascade
what is css what is what does css stand
for
what does css stand for
yeah it stands for cascading style
sheets so this is the cascade
excuse me the cascade is this idea
that what is above
can be overwritten by what is below so
if we look at this all our paragraphs
are going to wind up being what color
chat what color are paragraphs going to
wind up being
nice
all right most folks got it
all of our paragraphs are going to wind
up being
blue we got a posture check in here
got two of them we got a stretch
thank you and we gotta hydrate cheers to
you
it's gonna be blue right paragraphs
start out red but as we go down the
cascade they are blue so what we will
see rendered in the browser
is a blue
paragraph now the interesting thing is
the paragraph will be blue but it will
also be bold
right it'll also be bold because we
didn't override any font weight so you
get both right you get both you get the
ability to have something that is bold
and you have something that is blue
because we over it the color in the
cascade now
it's kind of hard to see like why you
would need this early on
but our css is going to get very complex
and there are going to be
some times where we want
certain
property value pairs on
all of our paragraphs and then some of
our paragraphs we want to be different
right now
this wouldn't be something that you
would really write
because they both have the same level of
specificity so you would kind of just
put it here but we're going to get the
specificity in a second but the idea is
that we're going to overwrite certain
attributes in certain certain times and
so having that cascade is going to be
something that we need
cool
why might we link to a separate css file
yep for organization separation of
concerns exactly
exactly for folks that are kind of
confused on the cascade give me a little
bit to get the specificity and then
it'll make more sense
all right
so we want to keep our css in a separate
file because of separation of concerns
that organization and we're going to see
a little bit more why that's really
helpful
all right before we start typing out
some css let's look at some some simple
css that we'll use a lot okay
so the first thing that i think most
people start off when they're writing
css
is
color
so i said would you ever have multiple
css files yeah you would
but for now we're going to probably
stick to one
yeah
all right
one of the first things you'll probably
do when you're trying to style your
content is use color and there are four
main ways four main ways that you can
use color in css
we have words hexadecimal values rgb
values and hsla values now
a lot of times
you will be given a design
and if you are working with a good
designer they're going to give you the
colors of everything so the designers i
work with they give me the colors they
give me the fonts and i don't have to do
any guesswork
um but when you're working on your own
projects you don't have a designer or
maybe you are a designer right you're
going to have to use some colors and so
where a lot of people start is they just
use the color
keywords so any kind of color keyword
you can think of red blue green yellow
they all work there are even some more
fancy ones like dodgers blue royal is
blue right
they will all work in terms of
coloring your your content right when
you connect your css
there are also hexadecimal ways of doing
it which is kind of like the og way to
introduce color it's kind of what
natively runs in most browsers we also
have something called rgb
which is standing for red green blue
and it's just a different way of
representing color
so here you can see 255 0 0
that means all of red
zero green zero blue and so that that's
going to give us red
right
and then we also have this lovely a on
the end which is our alpha channel
and that afford that alpha channel just
handles transparency like how opaque
something is like can it be see-through
or not
and then last is hsla
if you're a hipster you're probably
using hsla
it's kind of the new school a lot of
designers are folks that come from like
a print background
they'll use hsla right
i can't think of color that way huge
saturation lightness i've tried just
doesn't stick in my brain
i mainly use rgba and i love rgba
because i love that alpha channel
the the stuff i had to do back in the
day to get transparent colors it would
blow your mind and so for me i i can
really think about colors in terms of
rgba
i can sometimes like look at colors and
know what the rgba value is going to be
pretty closely and i love that alpha
channel
now a lot of folks and what i recommend
you start with are just the color
keywords
but the color keywords can get you into
a trickier situation
why what tricky situation do you think
you might get into if you're just using
color
keywords
yeah
limited selection
so i said racism uh limited
limited selection right when i say red
what kind of red do i mean do i mean
like
like crimson red do i mean like like
scarlet red like there's a lot of
different types of red and so you don't
really get that trippy red
you don't get any kind of customization
whatever the browser gives you for that
red is the red that you get right so
when you're just working on your own
projects or you're trying to move
quickly
i use color keywords like if i don't
care what it's like if i don't care
about the end ultimate color if i'm just
trying to prototype or get done quickly
i'll use the color keywords if it's
something that i'm doing professionally
i'll probably use rgba but it's kind of
up to you in your preference there's
really no right or wrong here
if you're working at amazon and i feel
like i have to do all these amazon
caveats because i have a lot of students
that go to work at amazon like i think
we're nearing like 20 people at amazon
now which is pretty wild um they might
care about what
we talked about a little bit earlier
they might care about what
they might care about speed
they might care about load speed right
they want to they want their pages to
load as quickly as possible so they can
make that money
and there's actually
like an infinitesimally small amount of
time
that
color keywords or non like the non-way
the browser's using it might have to go
to be turned into like a hexadecimal
value
so like if you're an amazon maybe in
some weird world you might have a
conversation where we should use like
the browsers like native or like the
instance that they're going to use so
there's no conversion that has to happen
you will never ever have to worry about
that um but if you're if you're shaving
like micro seconds make or seconds micro
seconds that might be something that
comes up
so yeah you can use color keywords you
can use hexadecimal values you can use
rgba
or if you're hipster or come from a
print background you might use hsla
another thing they're going to want to
do often is probably change the fonts
that you're using and so fonts are
actually files like that the browser
needs that file to know how to render a
font right it doesn't actually know how
to do a lot of different fonts there are
some that are built into the browser
that you can use but if you want like a
fancier font you're going to need to get
that file and give it to the browser so
it knows how to render your text using
that font
i use google fonts for most of my fonts
sometimes there are weird ones where i
download them off some shady websites
no that's not true i pay for all my
fonts pay for your funds i i in another
life did not pay for my fonts and i got
got so i'm gonna say
got got got got some nasty letters
uh so always pay for your fonts but you
have to pay for fonts you can just use
google fonts these days right
uh use use google fonts and google fonts
will give you uh that font file and the
really cool thing is they're gonna host
it
on their cdn their content delivery
network so it's gonna be really fast to
load that font file right the browser
might already even have it right and a
lot of times and um if not it'll work
really really fast and so what you can
see down here is the css for loading the
font
that we put in
our head so if you want a font you need
to link to it in your head so you need
to link to the font and then you need to
link to your css file and if you don't
have both you won't be able to actually
see that font
why does the link to the font need to
come before the link to our css file
is a little bit of a cascade that is
true
yeah it's because if the css needs it
like if we're going to be using it
in the css file well then we need that
font before we actually use it
right if we don't have the font we can't
use it so if you load your css file
first and then the font well guess what
that css is not gonna be able to use
that font because it won't have it yet
right
now there are some some things we can do
to like preload and all that stuff but
the idea is that we want it to have that
font before we try and use it and so the
funny thing is we see three different
fonts here
why do we have three different fonts
listed here
there are the fallbacks exactly if for
some reason
we're not able to get sour sands pro
from google
well then it's going to try using
helvetica
and if for some reason it doesn't have
helvetica then it's just going to use
whatever default sans-serif font that it
has
and so often when you're writing out
your font family like you have your font
family as the property you're going to
put multiple values as fallbacks right
if source sands pro my favorite font
does not work then we'll do helvetica
and i thought vedica doesn't work then
we'll just use the regular old
sans-serif
right
and so that's the idea here is that
there are fallbacks in case that font
doesn't load
now it's really easy to get google fonts
you just go to fonts.google.com
and you can find whatever font you like
i like source dance pro
look at it oh it's beautiful
this beautiful font
and the cool thing is you can select the
different
boldnesses or we call them weights
excuse me
you can select the different weights and
so
uh if i want like a normal
bold
that'll be like the 700 so i'm going to
select the bold
and i want the regular 400 just the
regular font
boom
there we go so i have selected the
regular 400 and the bold 700 and then it
literally gives you the link
to put in your head so you would just
copy this link and put it in your head
and boom you got the font it's literally
like two clicks in a copy and now you
have the font you put that in your head
before your css file and now you have
those fonts
now
what you'll notice
is i had to select the weights
if you do not have the weights like if
you don't have that particular file you
can't make your code a particular weight
like right now i don't have the 300 like
i didn't select the 300 so my browser
would not have source sans pro
at 300 unless it had loaded it from
somewhere else right it won't have it
and so what you got to be careful of is
that you want to make sure you grab the
weights that you're going to use so you
can see in this link i have the 300 the
400 and 700 so we'd be good but if i
grab just this link i don't have the 300
just the 700 and the 400
right and so you want to make sure that
you have the weights that you're going
to use but you don't want to have the
weights that you're not going to use why
why why won't we just select all the
weights
why not grab all the weights
speed too heavy if we grab all the
weights that means more files that we
have to download remember fonts are
actually files that the browser needs to
know how to render the font at those
different sizes and different shapes and
so if you just grabbed all the fonts it
might take a little bit longer to load
now we're talking about shaving micro
seconds here but it can all add up and
so you you just want to grab the weights
that you know you're going to use nice
now
a lot of times when you're trying to do
something in css
your best help is the mdn
if there's something that you want to do
and you don't know how to do it
you can always just throw it in google
to get to the
mdn so here is a let me google that for
you link that will type in the word
italicize
text
css
mdn so if i wanted to italicize text
uh using css
i know the mdn will show me right and so
i can use that
google
to get me to the mdn that'll show me how
to exactly italicize text i don't know
if this link still works let's try it
there we go
let us do its work
oh didn't do it oh
there we go
so if we typed in italicized text
italicized text css mdn
we're going to see this very first thing
here the very first result from the mdn
is this font style so oh
if i want to italicize text
font style is the what font style is the
what
and i thank you for the hydration here's
to you
exactly font style is the property and
what would be the value
what would be the value we can see it
it'd be italic right so right here on
the mdn
this is how i would italicize text font
size italic so if there's any type of
styling you want to do
and you don't know how to do it
all right and you don't know how to do
it
use the mdn
well gamer thank you for the gift of
some
minty fresh thank you for hydration
cheers to you
cool
let's keep pushing
all right i want to code some basic css
together
so in the materials from today class 4
materials if you need the materials on
discord in the follow along materials
there is a zip folder you're going to
download that zip and you're going to
unzip it
right so what i need you to do is i need
you to have those materials if you need
those materials go get them
but you should have a you should
you should have a class 4 folder
and inside that class 4 folder i have my
class 4 materials
and all i'm going to do is i'm going to
drag this material folder right i'm
going to grab drag this material folder
to my vs code
and it's going to open up the entire
folder for me
and the reason why i like to open up the
entire folder is because i love having
this nice little tree view on the left
hand side i know it's really tiny for
you to see
but what that is is it shows that every
gifted to nightbot
thank you for the good stuff
um
what you're seeing here is that lovely
tree view
right that lovely tree view and it just
makes it easier to see what you're doing
if you're connecting things right if you
have them in the right paths right
that's uh gritty and fiddly hey i love
it thank you for following
that's a good username
the it just enables you to see
everything
right enables you to see everything
enables you to know when you create css
files if you create them in the right
spot so all i did was drag that folder
to my vs code you can also just do
folder open or file open the folder and
you'll get it
cool
all right so if we look at the html in
the basic css folder so i had this basic
css folder
i'm going to click at it if it's not
working you probably didn't unzip it you
make sure you gotta unzip it
so now i have my entire materials open
i'm gonna go in this basic css folder
and we're gonna see inside the basic css
folder we got an html file which is
already open here nice and you're going
to see that this html file
links
to a style sheet so if we look in this
css folder we're going to see the
style.css that i can open
and it's completely
right it's completely blank
right completely blank
completely blank
hold on cc's not on one second
make sure that the closed captioning is
working
one second
make sure the extension is working
one second folks
all right
cool all right closed captioning should
be working i'm sorry that it wasn't
working i got to add that to my um
my
free stream ritual
but uh yeah cc should be working again
and
you can always use google live captions
as well so if for some reason uh the cc
is not working
google live captions also work i talked
about that like class or two ago that
cool should the the overlay should be
working
sorry about that
cool alrighty let's jump back into it so
p brady hey thank you for the gift of
subs
alrighty
here we go subs so the idea here is that
we have the index.html that is linking
to our css
linking to our css
right
and so that link
if we link if we look we go into the css
folder there's a style.css and it's
completely empty this is where we are
going to put our styles like our actual
rules are going to go in here okay
if we look at the html there are some
some there are some things that it's
asking us to do
if we look it says the h1
make this text blue
underlined and have a gold background so
we're going to do that we're going to
make this text blue
underlined and have a gold
background
right
we're not going to do any of the fancier
stuff right now we're just getting used
to the basics we'll have time to get
into reset and we'll have time to get
into
um
all the other fun like ways that we can
kind of
normalize or set our css dab hey thank
you for the gift of subs
hope you're doing well
so let's go ahead and start off with
just this h1 making it blue underlined
and a gold background so let's go to our
style we're going to do h1 our curly
braces are going to open and close and
look what i do
every single time
i type out my curly braces
i type them fully out and then i hit
enter
why do you think i always type out my
curly braces and then break them why not
just like open my curly brace do my
declarations and then close it
exactly to not forget i will forget to
close my curly braces and if you do not
close them the rules that come after it
just won't work most of the time
right and so just so i don't forget i
always make sure i open and close before
i write any of my declarations
because it just saves your butt so many
times so i highly recommend that you do
that too
all right the first thing it said was to
make it blue so i'm just going to go
ahead and do a color
blue
it said to make it underlined
what's the property for underline
how do i underline something what would
the property be
oh yeah people on top of it text
decoration if i didn't know that it was
text decoration where could i have gone
the mdm baby exactly could have went
to the mdn
exactly all right
so we're going to text decoration
and look at it trying to help you here
are all the properties right
here all the properties uh that we could
use
right and so it's it's trying to help us
here it's like all right text decoration
and then here are all the options for
text decoration so the cool thing about
using vs code is that if you if if the
file is saved
if it is saved as a css file it's really
going to try and help you right and so i
can do text decoration
underline and be all good and then the
last thing the last thing was what did
it say
have a gold background cool
let's go ahead and give this a gold
background i'm going to do background
and then i can just do gold
so with css3 like the third version of
css you really don't need the uh the
hyphenated values anymore like
background hyphen color you can get away
with just background
alrighty
i saved i don't have that that that
circle anymore so i know that it's saved
if i go back to my html file
i can right click open in default
browser right so
i want it to come back and open in
chrome so i can just right click on my
html open in default browser
and there we go we can see
right we can see
that
my h1 is blue
it is underlined and has a lovely
gold background so beautiful
oh look at it
first try
very myspace
somebody said you can use live server
for auto refreshing
no
it was at this moment that he knew he
[__] up
don't use live server when you're first
starting and here's why
i have seen individuals
go into interviews
not be able to use their actual setup
and they constantly forget to save if
constantly forget to refresh
they constantly like don't know the very
basics of how to like work in a text
editor and so please just give me just
give me like another week
another week of doing it manually get
used to to
to saving and oh and reopening and
and um
and
and and refreshing right like i can't
tell you how many times i've seen people
in interviews i have people like
students that have come back and told me
leon
it wasn't working because i forgot to
refresh
like i i was i was working i was saving
i forgot to refresh
right and so my changes like i was
sitting there
all the code is correct i just didn't
refresh the freaking page so please
make sure
from the beginning save open refresh
stay with me save open refresh
save open refresh save open refresh
right just get used to it
so that
so that way you don't lose that skill
and you don't have that happen to you in
interviews cool
all right so we did the first one
together
we did the first one together but
there's one two three more that i that
you can do here styling an h2 a
paragraph and an h3 so what we're gonna
do
bring five minutes up on the board here
and you're gonna go ahead and do the
next three on your own then we're gonna
go over them together
have at it
i am going to keep talking but i'm not
saying anything important i'm just
answering folks questions but go ahead
take the next five minutes
and uh see if you can answer the next
three on your own
get out of here with the duns already
can you show your css file yeah of
course
here's what my css file looks like
h1 curly braces open and close
each property is separated from the
value with a colon and then notice you
have a semicolon at each line
yeah give it the old 100 devs try
yeah some people really do like
splitting their files i just i just
don't like the split files i find it
faster to like flip through them
i know it's just a personal preference
for me but yeah splitting does help a
lot of folks early on that some people
like to have their html next to their
css
yo so beast i use a extension called
open uh open in browser so you can just
go if you're using vs code go to the
extensions and mines called open in
browser by tech er
and then on the html file you just right
click open in browser
dragon said this is one ugly site yeah
i'm not a designer
how do you change the language to css
and vs code just save it as a css file
my css file is correct but my changes
aren't showing uh make sure you saved
and make sure you refresh your browser
how do you fix that i'm not a designer
front end dev front end devs don't have
to design
now
that's the best running developers i
know have never never touched the design
in their life
you take the designs and you build them
in front end code but sometimes front
end developers like to learn a little
bit of design but definitely a
completely different job
yeah also it's not working make sure
your punctuation is there make sure your
colons are there make sure your
semicolons are there make sure your
curly braces closed
mobile help please i'm not sure what
that means
uh cc the zip file is on our discord in
the follow along materials channel
will you do split view while we work on
this no i don't like split view
i personally like to have like my files
just maxed
yeah we'll uh 21 we'll use more
extensions as we get further along in
the beginning i'd like to use this
middle minimum as few as possible
is it archaic in an interview to use
background color it's not archaic it's
just different
a lot of folks kind of move to um
to not using the hyphens anymore with
css3
brad thank you for the stretch
oh have you heard that geez
you did it congrats
uh congrats
how do you run the css again if you just
open the html file it'll run for you the
browser will grab it and do its thing
oh we'll see a lot of duns coming in
chat if you do finish go ahead and throw
done in the chat you got about 30
seconds left
and don't worry if you didn't finish
that's okay we're gonna go over it
together
i supposed to get roberto from google
fonts exactly
you're in the wrong file if you're
seeing zebra and duck and all that stuff
we're in the basic css folder
indian is really good the best
love me the mdn i get an mdn tattoo
all right folks come on back even if you
didn't finish that is okay
uh we're gonna go ahead and go over it
together
congrats on everyone that finished
it finished that's okay we're gonna go
over it together
all right
let's go ahead and take a look at the
next one
my border is thick
uh so the next one said make this text
purple
bold it
25 pixels and have
an orange border
all right
uh so i think that this is too much for
me to remember and i don't have to keep
jumping back and forth and i don't want
to do split view because i'm a
curmudgeon so what i'm going to do is
i'm going to come here and i'm going to
make a comment
i'm going to make a comment
so i'm going to paste all this
and i am going to highlight it you can
use keyboard shortcuts or your mouse to
highlight it and then i'm going to do
command forward slash commands forward
slash turns it into a comment uh meaning
that
it won't be read by the browser but
myself and other developers can see it
and what you'll notice is that the
comments in css a little bit different
than the comments in html in html they
use like the carrots and the bangs and
the hyphens and css is forward slash
astric and astric forward slash the end
and so now i have a nice comment and i
don't have to like jump back and forth i
can just go ahead and start styling my
h2 let's do that
h2 opens
my curly braces i type them all out and
then i break them get used to that
pattern of opening and then closing so
you don't ever forget them
all right make this text purple i'm
going to go ahead and do color
purple
and then i want to make it bold it we've
kind of already seen bold it before
right so we can go ahead and do font and
we know it's weight we just saw that on
the slides before
and i can do bold
or you can actually use the number like
if you had a specific font and you knew
that it was a 700 in weight then you
could use the 700 there
i'm just going to go ahead and use bold
for now
all right
cool
25 pixels
what is
what handles the font sizing like what's
the property for the size of the font
yeah font size
font size and we're going to set that to
px or pixels right we'll get into other
ways of doing measurement we'll we'll
see rams and m's and all that stuff in
the future but now pixels and we want to
have an orange border
so we're going to do border
and we didn't see how thick it wanted it
but we're just gonna do like i don't
know let's do like let's make it a
little bit thicker than normal like not
like one pixel but five pixels
solid
orange
cool
so what this is doing is with
css3
we got the ability to give borders all
on one line
before css3 we had to do this as uh
three separate property value pairs but
now we have this lovely shorthand right
so before we have to do border size
border type border color as three
different lines but with css3 we can all
do it on one line
so this is border my pixel solid orange
nice little short hand here
cool uh notice that i'm making sure that
my curly braces open and close
i know that there's a colon between each
of my properties and values i got my
semicolons at the end of each line
a lot of folks are saying leo it didn't
work
probably why it didn't work is you
forgot your semicolons
you forgot to save and you forgot to
refresh make sure that all those are in
order and it'll probably solve the
problems that you're having
alrighty
so folks are saying does order matter
inside of here inside it really does not
matter order some people like to go in
alphabetical i think that's kind of a
waste of time just whatever you do be
consistent in it so like you'll notice
i'm always going to do my color first
right that's just something i decided to
do so i'm going to stick to it
it's up to you
yeah
all right
how does a developer know what pixel
size to use
sometimes your designer gives that to
you as well
other otherwise it's up to you to kind
of figure it out you kind of play around
with it
[Music]
let's go ahead and and save it's not
safe we can see that circle the top let
me go ahead and save
and i'm going to go back to my browser
and i'm going to refresh beautiful
my text is purple
it is 25 pixels it is bolded and it has
like this lovely
uh border going around it
all right
let's look at the next one let's make
another comment
make this section a width of 50
a height of 200 pixels
a background of gray
a border of black and a paragraph with
the text being white
all right let's copy this let's go back
to our style
i'm going to go ahead and paste it
not fine i'm gonna go ahead and paste it
and i'm gonna turn this all into a
lovely comment
alrighty
the have without an e is really
bothering me you got got thank you for
the engagement
thank you i appreciate it
if you're watching on youtube go ahead
and type have gang for me please if
it's bothering you
all righty so we're gonna start with the
section
section curly braces
and we're gonna do a width of 50 so with
colon and then our 50 percent beautiful
semicolon at the end
height of 200 pixels
height 200 pixels nice
i'm using tab that's how i'm able to go
a little bit faster really
he literally just said youtuber on
twitch that's because we have a lot of
people thousands of people that watch on
youtube uh that can't join us live or
the ketchup crew maybe
shout out youtube what up youtube go
ahead and like and subscribe and click
that notification bell for us oh yeah
all right background of gray
gray beautiful
and a border of black so let's go into
our border
let's take a little bit let's do like
three pixels solid black there we go a
nice border nice background
and it says the paragraph text white can
i make the paragraph text white inside
of this rule
maybe
maybe it would inherit from this section
there is this level of inheritance that
happens in css where sometimes it can
inherit colors from a parent element
right so we'll see that as we get a
little bit further on so there is this
level of inheritance that sometimes if
we put a styling on a containing element
it might inherit down to the stuff
that's inside of it let's not worry
about that for now let's be more
specific here and target that paragraph
and let's go ahead and give that
paragraph a color
of
white
cool
now
if we go ahead and save this
and we check
there are no other paragraphs we want to
worry about all of our paragraphs
turning white there's only one paragraph
so we're in the clear here
we can figure out how to target this
specific paragraph in a few minutes as
we continue our lecture
all right so it looks good we got our
section all set up we got our paragraph
all set up we saved
let's come back um why am i not seeing
my border or my background
why is this not working
what happened
aha did not refresh
there we go i refresh we got that width
you can see it's a nice fifty percent
it's 200 pixels in height uh we got a a
background a border and the paragraph
text is white nice
all right one last bit we have here
we have
one more that was on the on the html
uh make this footer
have a black
background with a light green border
and this text 20 pixels white plus a
font family of roboto thank you very
much i missed i shouldn't i shouldn't
sing might get uh
i might get um i might get copyrighted
again my scene is that good
let's make a comment
i'm gonna just highlight it all you can
use keyboard commands to highlight it
quicker
there we go
you need a comment command forward slash
control forward slash probably on your
your machine if you're not on a mac
we don't get got we go get
all
right right so footer
curly braces open
let me bring this up a little bit
and we're gonna give it a black
background so background
black beautiful
we're gonna give it a light green border
order
uh let's do five five pixels
solid
and light green what did you use the
color it light green
i see some hexadecimal nobody throughout
the rgb value though oh there we go one
rgb value but all of y'all just want the
light green you're likely i ain't here
to play
light green there we go
all right
uh so that was the footer
and let's go ahead and let's just go
ahead and check make sure that worked
beautiful uh we can't see that text
though
that text
is not working because we need to make
it white it's black on black so we can't
see it
so let's go ahead that was inside of an
h3
so i can target the h3
so i can select the h3 here and i can
give it a color of white
and i can give it a font family
of
roboto
all right i'm going to give it a
fallback though of sans
serif just in case
all right now do i have this font this
font
at the moment where do i need to check
to see if i have this font
where specifically in the html
yeah we gotta go check the head let's go
check the head
all right we go to the head here
we see the link to the css file but we
do not have the link to the font uh so
let's go to google fonts and get that
font
and so
uh i am going to
go ahead and
make sure i don't have anything from
source dance pro i don't want any the
source stands pro i just want the i just
want the normal font so
let's go to fonts
let's google
roboto or search for roboto here we go
roboto
and i just want the regular 400. i
didn't need to bold it or anything so
i'm going to get the 400
and then i'm going to copy the link
i'm going to take that link
and i'm going to put it in the head
right before my style sheet
i like my stuff to be clean so i'm going
to indent there we go
there we go so now i have the link that
google gave me
right i have the link that google gave
me
and i have the link to my style sheet
why do we put the font before our style
sheet again
a little bit of the cascade yep exactly
so we load the font before we need to
use it exactly we know that even even in
the the links there's a cascade right
it's going and grabbing the font and
then running our css file and so if we
want our css file to be able to use it
we need that font file beforehand
um
there are a lot of like fancy stuff that
that google is doing here with like this
pre-connect and in terms of like how how
quickly it's rendering right how fast
it's it's loading right and so um make
sure that you don't have to worry you
don't go too wide on that just know that
it's doing what it needs to do to load
these fonts for you as quickly as
possible
all right so we got our fonts and then
our font family we got to save this html
file right we got to save the html file
and then we can go ahead and
uh refresh our page
there we go and we can tell that this
font is different than the other fonts
on the page right got that nice like
chunky roboto look
and so yeah we got the nice beautiful
light green uh border the black
background the white text and it's using
that roboto font
ah 20 pixel size let's see
up text 20 pixels let's go ahead and do
that
font size
20 pixels
cool let's save it
let's refresh
oh second try
alrighty
take a look at this
questions while we're here and then
we'll take a break
questions while we're here i'll take a
break
we used a 20 pixel font size
single or double quotes does it matter
no it does not
how do you know to choose five pixels
solid because the mdn told me to if you
go on the mdn it shows you how to use
that border and so there are different
types of borders that you could use
solid dotted there's a bunch of them
dashed i think
i have issues with the paragraph that's
read and underlined that's your text
that are trying to tell you there's
something going on
make sure it's saved as an html file
how do you separate the h3 and the
footer well we can start targeting them
uniquely and we'll do that when we come
after the break we'll see how to target
stuff that's not necessary we don't want
to target everything we can target
specific items we'll see that when we
come back from the break
i lost connection to localhost that
means you're using like live server or
something that that uh right now don't
be using that just
save and open
manually
so
you want to see the html sure let me
show you html
my html is exactly the same as the one i
gave you except i just added the links
from google that's all
uh i didn't use section or footer and i
got the same results not sure what you
mean by that
that's having fun
cool all right folks
uh can you can you show how to get the
google font again sure i think there'll
be a last thing and then we'll take our
break because we're at the top of the
hour uh so all i did is i went to google
fonts so fonts.google
i'm just going to clear them so there's
nothing in our selected uh all you got
to do is go to fonts and search whatever
you want we search for robot though
we found robot though and then you got
to pick what weight you want so i just
want it to 400 because i'm not i'm not
going to bold or anything so i selected
that style
right and when you select the style it
adds it to like your little list up here
sometimes you have to click it sometimes
it just opens it for you if you click
that little button at the top right boom
there are the links that i put inside
the top of my html
is there a reason why you didn't use
footer h3 because we're not there yet
we're going to see that when we come
back from break
is it scary that google knew i wanted
roboto i think that's the default one
that they show that's kind of why i use
it
yeah
all right folks uh we are at the top of
our hour let's go and make sure we stay
healthy take our break
if you are able please get up move
around man time is flying we're having
fun over here uh make sure you get up
move around if you're able grab some
water hydrate kiss some babies
play with some dogs
and we'll be back in five folks we'll be
back in five
a little bit i'll give you what you want
bob
do
space you got a brownie i'm jelly
bob is so engaging i'm glad
i feel like we need i feel like i need
three screens
yeah i work with three
normally i'm really just working with
two in my laptop
but when i'm really in the thick of it i
got three going
bob told us your deepest secrets
do you watch star trek yeah
i'm a weirdo though i'm a deep space
nine fan it's the best
next game on the ipad a
which screen do you recommend
uh i don't
my setup is way too expensive
but i didn't pay for anything in my
setup so when you negotiate
your jobs
or you negotiate like client contracts
you can negotiate
um what is called professional
development funds and especially right
now since everybody's working from home
it's actually one of the biggest things
that you
will probably negotiate
is like professional development funds
and so over three years i've spent my
professional development funds to like
build up my setup and so
i have a 4k 144 hertz monitor i have
another 4k monitor i got a 30 90 a
threadripper cpu like i got a lot of
stuff that would just never tell people
to go out and buy because i never
actually bought it i i negotiate my
client contracts and i negotiate my
employment contracts so i can get the
good stuff
you
that's something to keep in mind
uh right now i saw somebody uh double
their um literally like this aft like
this morning i was helping somebody
negotiate an offer and they doubled
their sign-on bonus they doubled their
sign-on bonus and they got pd funds to
buy like a work from home set up so
that's like an extra 15k they got that
they negotiated for that so something
keep in mind
so yeah my stuff is ridiculous but i
didn't pay for it
my first monitor that i bought
no no lie
my very first monitor that i bought i
went to radio shack
let the sink in for a second i went to
radio shack and i asked the guy at radio
shack do you have any monitors
that you haven't been able to sell
and they were like yeah actually we got
a bunch in the back i was like great can
you give me a discount
on
on that monitor they're like yeah sure
we'll give you like a while that gave me
like half off and so i got my first
monitor
uh from radio shack for half off because
i asked they had any that they couldn't
sell so yeah you don't need it was a
viewsonic i think yeah you don't need
fancy gear you don't need any of that
crap when you're first starting out
don't go out and buy a brand new
computer because more often than not
work is going to give you a computer
like like a lot of a lot of places just
give you a new macbook pro so like don't
run out and like do a fancy setup you
just you just don't need it
all right folks
welcome back welcome back
let's get into this
already
more things to get through tonight
we'll be on our way
now a lot of folks might have noticed
leon
how do we target specific elements
all right
shields thank you for stretch how do we
how do we target specific elements
okay
well
there are kind of some very key ways to
target specific elements uh you can
use things called classes and ids which
we'll get to next next week on tuesday
we're going to get into we're going to
cover them a little we're going to hint
at them tonight we're not going to
really start using them until next week
so for your
your computer right so sorry for your
computer for your homework and for your
lab today i don't want you to use any
classes or ids so for the homework that
you start this week and for the homework
that you do
um over the weekend no classes no ids
we'll get into the thick of them next
week i want you to practice
using your relationship selectors okay
knowing your relationship selectors is
going to save you a lot of headache down
the line so no classes no ids for
homework this weekend uh just these
relationship selectors are about to go
through so
here
we can select
in our css elements
based on the relationship in html
so here we have a section
and inside of that section we have a
paragraph
right we have a section and inside that
section is a paragraph
whenever you have a tag that is inside
of another tag
we call that a relationship
and right now this is a parent
child relationship
okay
and a parent-child relationship just
means that one tag the child
is inside of another tag
the parent
now we can target all the paragraphs on
the page
by just selecting a paragraph
but what if
we just wanted the paragraphs
that were
inside of a section
i gotta check something real quick hold
on all right cool
um
i wanted to see if the cc worked when i
muted my mic cool all right so what we
want to do
is be able to select specific elements
right select specific elements based on
their relationship to other elements and
so here we're seeing something very
clever this is a direct
child you can have a space which would
be a parent-child relationship and then
this is a
direct parent-child relationship so what
i am saying here is give me a paragraph
that is the direct descendant the direct
child of a section nothing in between
nothing
else that we're wrapping around give me
a paragraph that is immediately with
inside of a section so that is a direct
child when you have that right carrot
that means direct child and so what
would happen is all the paragraphs that
are direct children of sections would
now be read not every paragraph
just the paragraphs that were direct
children of a section
okay
let's look at something slightly
different
here
this paragraph
is the direct child of what
this paragraph is the direct child of
what
uh that's nasty i like this new t um
that paragraph is the direct child of
the article exactly this paragraph is
the direct child of the article
right this paragraph however
is a child of the section it's just not
a direct child it's kind of like you're
like a grandparent right like this
section is a grandparent to this
paragraph this paragraph is a child of
the section it's just not a direct child
so the paragraph is the direct child of
its parent which is the article and it's
a grandchild to the section
right so here
we have
section
space p
when you have that space
it does not matter how deep that
paragraph is nested it will still work
if there is somewhere up the chain a
section that it is inside of
right
so here
this means direct there cannot be any
intermediary there could not be anything
between the paragraph and a section
but here we have this article so if i do
this
if i do that
this paragraph would no longer turn red
because this paragraph is not the direct
descendant
of a section it is the direct descendant
right of the article
can you do relationships with classes
too yep you can
often you're gonna have like it we call
it like like an anchor like your id or
class and then you're gonna have
relationship selectors after so that's
why it's important to know your
relationships first
cool
we also have another type of
relationship and that's called a sibling
so here
this is a direct sibling you're saying
find me the paragraph
whose immediate sibling was a paragraph
if we look
this paragraph hello youtube
has an immediate sibling
that is hello twitch
so this would make hello youtube
red
it wouldn't make hello twitch red y why
would hello twitch not be red
it is powerful twitching yeah
they hate each other
because the hello twitch does not have a
sibling that's above it it doesn't have
it's not the direct sibling only this
paragraph is the direct sibling because
only this paragraph
follows another paragraph
right when you have this p plus p it's
really targeting the direct sibling
right so this paragraph is the only
paragraph that has a paragraph that
comes above it
all right so we learned about our direct
child can't be any any gaps
we learned about our parent child which
can be as deep as we want
and we learned about our siblings so
with that knowledge
let's uh let's code some relationships
let's code some relationships so
in our starter code from today that's on
the follow along materials channel in
discord we had a folder called
relationship css so i'm going to open up
that html file
and i'm going to open up the css file
that's in the relationship css folder
remember you can just drag the whole
folder to vs code you can do folder open
whatever is easiest for you to get that
open
right that's what we're going to do so i
have this index.html
and i have a css file
is my html and css file linked
i don't know i keep drinking it so bad
yes it is linked we can see our css file
linked at the top
it is linked correctly so we're all good
we can start writing our css
all right
if
i want it to target
the
h1 if i wanted to target the h1 and i
wanted to make it
purple
what would my selector be
it would just be h1 right we don't worry
about it it'd just be h1
color
purple and we would be good right we
save it let's just check let's make sure
everything's functioning well
open it in the browser
our h1 is purple we make this a little
bit bigger
wonderful our h1 is purple so we know
our css is linked it's working we can we
can jump into this and have some fun
all right
what if
i wanted all of my h2s
to be
yellow
what if i wanted all my h2s to be yellow
y'all think you're cute y'all y'all
think you're cute they keep doing the
hydrates because i don't like the tea
guess what i ain't doing it you wasted
your channel points
you wasted your channel points
hey
tell byron i said what's up
i wanted all my h2s to be yellow yes
pretty simple right we can just do h2
color
yellow beautiful save it let's go back
all my h2s are now yellow
right
oh oh my my h2s are yellow
we got world zebra unicorn and duck are
all yellow
all right beautiful
now
what if
i wanted only world and zebra to be
yellow
but not unicorn
or duck
what if i only wanted world and zebra
but not unicorn or duck
let's take a look at it
all right well world and zebra
are inside of a section
so since world and zebras have a section
maybe we can target it by just doing
section h2 so let's try that first
let's do section
space h2 and let's let's make sure that
let's make it something a little bit
easier in the eye let's make them
uh green
all right
or let's not do green sorry if you're
color blind for this one folks
uh let's make um
make um
blue
that could be that much more helpful but
there we go big and blue
alright
let's go ahead and refresh
wait a minute
we had world
zebra
and unicorn turn blue
but i only wanted world and zebra to be
blue why did unicorn also go blue let's
look
we said section h2
why did unicorn also get blue
exactly if we look
what did i just do if we look this h2
right this h2
is inside of a section
so this unicorn h2
is the child
of a section
it is a child of a section just like
these h2s are the child of this section
this h2
is the child
of a section
however
this h2 is not a what kind of child
it's not what kind of child
yeah it's not a direct child if we look
at these two h2s they are both the
direct child of the section if we look
at this h2
we look at this h2
it is the direct child of an article
so what we can do is we can go over here
and we can say section
right caret h2
now we're only going to target the
direct children only the h2s that are
direct children of the sections only
these two h2s are direct children of the
section this one is a grandchild
this one
not inside of a section let's go ahead
and save this we should just see world
and zebra being blue
beautiful
world and zebra are blue
the unicorn is no longer blue
all right
what if
i wanted all of what if i wanted unicorn
and duck
to both be
uh why can't i think of like colors what
if i wanted unicorn and duck to be red
what if i wanted unicorn and duck to be
red
okay let's look at them
they're both inside of articles right so
we can do article h2 and that should
work
let's go and do that
article
h2
and let's go and do color
red
beautiful
and let's go ahead and check it out
unicorn and duck are both red beautiful
unicorn and duck are both red
uh i could have done it
with the space
but i could have also done it with the
right carrot it doesn't really matter
here right they're both direct children
so i could do the carrot if i wanted to
be a little bit more exact
or i could have been a little bit more
flexible without the carrot right up to
you
does space matter not really too much
spacing in your
selector is helpful but like this white
space here and here is just preference
all right
so now we got both of them red what if
i just wanted unicorn to be a different
color what if i wanted unicorn to be
um
orange
if i wanted unicorn to be orange
semicolon and colon are critical they
are indeed
yeah we would have to do we could we
could we could we can get a little bit
more exact here we can say give me the
h2 that's inside the article that's
inside the section
if we look at duck it's h2 inside of an
article but that article is not inside
of a section so let's get a little bit
more specific here let's go in and say
section
article
h2
beautiful let's go ahead and do
uh orange or sorry orange color
orange
nice
let's save it
let's come back
and let's refresh
all right
unicorn is orange
nice
or straight
right nice orange but something really
really cool just happened
something really cool just happened
let's look at this what what did we just
use
yeah
iron got it nice yeah
we we used the cascade here because look
if we get if we get rid of this rule
let's comment this rule out right we
comment it out it's no longer be read by
the browser if we comment that out and
we refresh
unicorn goes back to red
it goes back to red
but if i bring back
this rule
it goes from red
to orange
you go back and refresh look it's orange
again so we use that cascade remember
the stuff that comes below can override
the stuff that comes above
right
the stuff that comes below can override
stuff that comes above but there's a
specific
right there's a specific thing that
happened here that enabled it to
override in the cascade and it was able
to override in the cast speed because it
was more what
yeah it was more specific it had more
specificity so we're gonna learn about
that now
so here we had three points of
specificity as opposed to two points so
since this had three points since it has
the same or greater
weight right has the same or greater
weight
we can override it in the cascade
let's talk about that
all right
before we get there though
before we can talk more about that
specificity we got to learn about the
other two things they're going to show
up when we get to specificity this is
just for us to hint at ids and classes
we're going to use them more next week
for your homework for the lab today
please do not use ids or classes i just
want to show you them so we can talk
about them when it comes to specificity
so
ids are a way of uniquely identifying an
element so you can style it later on
right so here
you can see that my i have a regular
paragraph and then i have a paragraph
with the id of zebra
right
has the id of
zebra
and what i'm able to do
is in my html
i can target
that paragraph
right
and only that paragraph oh dab so this
is a good yolo opportunity
yeah how can we do that
i guess we can we can we can put in like
different levels of specificity that'd
be fun
so here i have the zebra right i have
targeted
just this paragraph and only this
paragraph by using the id the way you
use the id is with the octothorpe this
pound sign this hashtag
right and so the idea is the way i can
target this id is by using the octathorp
zebra whatever the id is called i'm able
to use that to target my element
directly now the interesting thing about
ids
is that each element can only have one
id
and then that id can never be used
anywhere else in that html file
so ids are unique until we can uniquely
target one element and only that element
right
slash just think about a posture check
right and so you can target that element
only that element so like on discord
you all have a unique name it's like the
name and the numbers that come after it
only you can have that name if i want to
talk to you directly i will use that
name same thing when it comes to html
and css if i give it an id my css can
style that element specifically and only
that element
but a lot of times
i want to target multiple elements at
the same time but i don't want to have
to
right i don't want to have to
constantly be targeting elements i want
the cosby writing more style so we have
something in css called classes classes
are ways of targeting multiple elements
at the same time if we go back to that
discord example some of you might have
the class of hamilton some of you might
have the class of mod right and so we
can target multiple elements at the same
time using a class so here you can see
this paragraph and this paragraph both
have the class of bob so i can target
both those paragraphs at the same
time right i can target both of those
paragraphs at the same time by using a
class
and the way that i can target a class is
by using the dot and then the class name
so ids unique identifiers
id equals and we target it using the
octothorpe and then class you can give a
class to multiple elements and each
element can have multiple classes you
can have as pretty much as many classes
as you want on an element and then you
can target them all in your css so id is
unique classes target multiple elements
at the same time don't worry about that
too much for now we will learn more
about ids and classes next week i do not
want you to use ids and classes for your
lab or any of the homework this weekend
all right does it matter what you choose
for the id or class names no
you can call them whenever you want
ideally you want them to like make sense
and reference the content in some way
shape or form but you can call them
whatever you want
how do you keep track of the ids and
classes that you create uh hopefully
you've given them like intelligent names
that like make sense and then you kind
of just go in my opinion like top to
bottom but some people organize them by
like area like header sections like
they'll group it but we'll get into like
css
like css
best practices and organization later on
all right here we go
when we are trying to determine
if an element can override an element
that came before in the cascade like
when we're looking at this
how did we know that this
this rule could override the rule that
came above it well the reason we were
able to know that this rule was able to
override the rule that came before it is
because this rule was more specific it
had a greater weight it had more points
i like to think about the points i know
some people like to think about it in
weight i think about in points to me
this just had more points right had
three points as opposed to two points so
i was able to override it in the cascade
because it had the same or greater it
has to have the same or greater
weight or same or greater number of
points and so how many points do you get
well
you get one point for a tag
you get 10 points
for a class
you get 100 points
for an id
and you get a thousand points
when you use an inline style
bang important
right or bang important so the idea here
is that if you're just using tags
they're all one point if you're using
classes they're all worth 10 points if
you're using ids they're worth a hundred
points and if you're using inline styles
or bang important you're talking about a
thousand
now this is really important to keep in
mind because
how many classes
how many classes would your selector
need to override an id
need to override an id exactly
we would need 10
classes to override an id
so you got to be careful when you're
throwing around these ids it's going to
be really hard to override stuff in the
cascade right it's really hard to
override stuff in the cascade if you're
throwing around ids so some developers
don't use ids at all
they just use classes right that's a
decision that you can make
if we go ahead and look
maybe we want all of our h2s to have a
lot of stuff maybe we want all of our
h2s to be red maybe we want them to be
font weight bold
maybe we want them to be
30 pixels
right maybe we want all of our h2s to be
red bold and 30 pixels
however we want the h2s that are inside
of a section to be orange
we still want them to have the font
weight of bold we still want them to
have the font size of 30 pixels so
instead of having to rewrite all of this
stuff
right
instead of rewrite all this stuff we
take advantage of the cascade
only the color is overwritten for the
h2s that are inside of sections all of
our h2s still get that boldness they
still get the font size it's just
the color that we update so the idea
here is that this cascade can save us so
much time because we can target all of
them
and then if we just want to make a
simple change when
something is in a certain spot or we
want to target a specific element we can
use the cascade to make that specific
change
right exactly we're keeping our code dry
uh we're not repeating ourself the idea
here is that the cascade can be helpful
right the cascade can help us from
having to repeat our code we can keep
our code dry dry stands for do not
repeat yourself so the idea being here
if i want all my h2s to be red font
weight bold and font size 30 pixels i
can do that but if there's a specific
scenario right where i just want this
one specific sorry this one specific h2
to be something different instead of
having to rewrite the entire set of
rules i can just make that color change
so i get all the original stuff but i'm
able to just override the color
cool that's where specificity is going
to come into play enable us to target
specific elements but it's also going to
enable us to if we need to
use the cascade to our benefit to make
those changes we want without having to
rewrite everything over and over again
alrighty chat
how many points of specificity does this
selector have
cookie codes hey thank you for the
hydration you know i i don't like this
tea this tea sucks but since it's you
cheers thank you for the hydration
actually it's not that bad maybe it just
needs to steep a little bit longer
correct it is two points of specificity
if we look
we have
one tag
two tags that is two points of
specificity this has two points of
specificity
all right
how about
this rule here
we can see that the id the paragraph has
the id of zebra
and we can see that there's an id here
how many points specificity chat
it is a hundred points of specificity
exactly there are zero tags in that
selector
there are zero classes in that selector
and there is one id so that is a hundred
points of specificity nice
chat how many points of specificity does
this
selector have
oh people are getting tripped up here
see i see a couple different answers
floating around all right let's count it
how many tags do we have well
section is a tag
we have one tag
and we have one class
we have 11 points a specificity
10 points for the class of bob
one point for the section and we can
actually see that what that looks like
here we have
the class of bob
that is inside
of the section
so now here's the question
if we're looking at this code block
how many elements just became red no
there we go
if we're looking at this code block how
many elements just became red
two
right
this paragraph has the class of bob
and this paragraph has the class of bob
so both hello youtube and hello mixer
have the classic goodbye mixer had the
class of bob and they are both
inside of the section so since they are
both inside the section and they both
have
the class of bob they both become red
all right
one other thing here
is i said that we can
we can of course
have
tags for one point
classes for 10 points ids
or a hundred
and then we have this other that's a
thousand points
and i said that it's inline style
if you were to go into your html file
and put some style that becomes a
thousand points of specificity so why is
it a really bad idea to use inline style
what is what does that make really hard
to do
it's next to impossible to override
it's just it's just really hard you
would just never be able to have enough
points of specificity to override the
inline style so could you see how
frustrating that would be could you
imagine like coming to your css file and
no matter how many classes or ids or
tags that you use your css just doesn't
take effect
right it just it just nothing you do
would work and then you you're banging
your head against the keyboard for a
half an hour you're like nothing's
working i can't i'm saving i'm
refreshing it has really lots of points
to specificity and then
and then you go
and you look
you
look at your html file
you start breathing heavy
you realize that this [__]
went inside and put in line style and
i've been here trying to get my
specificity right for a half hour you're
gonna your
don't don't do it folks don't do it
they're gonna get got they ops they out
here exactly don't do it you can see how
frustrating that could be
because you think that they're adhering
to separation of concerns
but they went and put inline style it's
a thousand points specificity there's
never going to be a time for you to be
able to override it you just won't have
enough points
cool
all right
next one
we have this bang important
and this bang important what it does is
at the end of your selector
you can do bang
important
and what that does is it gives that rule
let me go smaller here sorry
you can do bang important
you just kind of put it right right
before your curly brace right right
before you curly brace if i was doing it
on my actual css here this is what it
looked like
bang
important right i had that oh sorry in
the wrong spot we're doing color red
here bang important
right so i put it on my actual
declaration that bang important let's
save it
let's come back
let's actually refresh this here
what we notice is that unicorn
went back to red
right
right went back to red
even though
even though this had three points of
specificity as opposed to the two up
here unicorn went back to red because
that bang important added a thousand
lines of specificity
so this is another thing
that we probably
wouldn't want to do
we wouldn't want to add that bang
important because
it will just never you can never
override it in the cascade
so there's only really one time you
should ever use bang import you know
when the only time you should bang
important is
there's really only one time
maybe i'll let you take a guess
there's only one time
that one time is
if
you have a client project
right you have a client project
that is due in 10 minutes
and for whatever reason you can't figure
out
right you can't figure out how to make
it work you can't figure out the
specificity you throw a bang important
on that and you get to the you get to
the you get to the client meeting you
show them your wares and then after that
client meeting you can go let me figure
this out
that's the only time
you're allowed to use bang important any
other time right any other time no you
can't use bank important but when you
got 10 minutes left and you can't figure
[__] out you got to go to that client
meeting throw your bang important you
figure that [__] out later
all right figure that out later
and so
that's when we're going to use the uh
the uh the bang import in there cool
alrighty
we reached the end for tonight
let me talk a little bit about your
homework this this week i remember
homework will be due next thursday you
got two things for homework uh one is
the simple site lab and let me show you
what that is in the starter materials
from today
there was this simple site lab
so here's the the picture of the simple
site lab
and your goal
is to write the html and css
to bring this monstrosity alive
right i want you to write the html
i want you to write the css
this will be due
next thursday
okay if you look we got some stuff that
we already know now people are saying
easy in the class and in chat that's
good uh what would this be
what would this be
h1
how about this
would that be
yep nav maybe ul maybe some lis
definitely a link you can see that's a
link
about this
h2 nice
about
these paragraphs nice
got an image
maybe another what down here at the
bottom
another what down at the bottom
another nav maybe some ui some allies
and then we got like some background
colors we got some borders going on so
pretty much all the stuff that we saw
css wise here um everything on this page
you've seen in html you've seen in css
maybe some little weird things you might
have to figure out like how do you get
the image on one side as opposed to the
other you have to figure that out but
the idea is that you're going to take
this lab
and uh you're going to go ahead and
build it
right in a few minutes early we're going
to do our raid of course always to send
love and positivity somewhere give them
some follows
but then take a little bit of time
tonight maybe to to work through this
lab it'll be due next thursday
and then we have another thing i want to
add to your homework for next thursday
and that's to read the learn layout so i
know i said it for tuesday but i'm going
to give you to thursday to get through
the learn layout so you're going to
finish this this simple lab and then
you're going to do the learn layout
this is dr black
when i ran this cohort last cohort
dr black had passed away
she is my
uh greatest mentor i've ever had the
person that taught me
how to be an educator the person that
brought me uh
kicking and screaming through my
chemistry and all my my stem classes at
yale i would have not made it to where i
did in school without her uh and uh
definitely would not have become the
educator that i am without them so uh
i'm always gonna leave it here whenever
i give this lecture dr black will be
here and so
uh yeah this weekend finished that lab
finish the learn layout and we are going
to end with a
raid uh so we're gonna go to
uh dr
mikachu
and so remember if you just join the
raid you don't do anything just gotta
stay here uh you get extra channel
points
let's go ahead let's go to their channel
let's spread some love and positivity
give them some follows please
they do some game development so setting
up the raid and i'll see you all over
there thank you for
a wonderful class
thank you for uh diving into css with me
don't worry you're going to have lots
more css practice next week we're going
even deeper with css it's going to get
even more review even more repetition
good luck this weekend good luck diving
in deeper with the shahal the learn
layout reading we're going to go over it
all together next week don't worry and
i'll see you all on sunday for office
hours if you got questions i got answers
let's raid